##What is an API?
API(application programming interface) is a is a set of defined rules that enable different applications to communicate with each other.
It acts as an intermediate  layer that processes data transfers between systems, letting companies open their application data and functionality to external
third-party developers, business partners, and internal departments within their companies.

### How an API works?

Let's take an example of third party e-commerce site to understand this concept. 
- When the buyer clicks the payment button, an API calls to retrieve information—also known as a request. This request is processed from an application to the web server.
 
- After receiving a valid request from the product webpage, the API makes a call to the external program or web server( in this case, the third-party payment system).
 
-The server sends a response to the API with the requested information.
 
-The API transfers the data to the initial requesting application( here it is product website).

You can also understand this concept  by taking an example of a servant in restaurant , as servants acts as an intermediate between customers and the chef just like that API's send 
request to web server and then according to the request another web server responds.

###API benefits
APIs simply helps in design and development of new applications , services and integration or management of existing ones.

###Types os API's :
1) Hardware APIs
Interface for software to talk to hardware.
Example: How your phone's camera talks to the operating system. 

2) Software Library APIs
Interface for directly consuming code from another code base.
Example: Using methods from a library you import into your application.

3) Web APIs
Interface for communicating across code bases over a network.
Example: Fetching current stock prices from a finance API over the internet.

Accessibility:
APIs also vary in the scope of who can access them.

Public APIs (aka Open APIs)
Consumed by anyone who discovers the API

Private APIs
Consumed only within an organization and not made public

Partner APIs
Consumed between one or more organizations that have an established relationship.



