What is Web 3.0 in crypto?
When it comes to Web 3.0, you'll find that cryptocurrency is frequently mentioned. This is because many of the Web 3.0 protocols rely heavily on cryptocurrencies.
Instead, it offers a monetary incentive (tokens) to anyone who wishes to help create, govern, contribute to or improve one of the projects. Web 3.0 tokens are digital
assets that are associated with the vision of creating a decentralized Internet. These protocols may provide various services, such as computation, bandwidth, storage,
identification, hosting and other online services formerly provided by cloud providers. 
For instance, the Livepeer protocol, which is based on Ethereum, provides a marketplace for video infrastructure providers and streaming applications. Similarly, Heliuincentivizes consumers and small businesses to supply and confirm wireless coverage and send device data through the network using blockchains and tokens.
People can earn a living by taking part in the protocol in various ways, both technical and non-technical. Consumers of the service typically pay to use the protocol, much like they would pay a cloud provider such as Amazon Web Services. Like many forms of decentralization, needless and frequently wasteful intermediaries are eliminated.
Furthermore, Web 3.0 will rely heavily on nonfungible tokens (NFTs), digital currencies and other blockchain entities. Reddit, for example, is attempting to make Web 3.0
inroads by devising a mechanism to employ cryptocurrency tokens to allow users to essentially control pieces of the on-site communities in which they participate. The 
concept is that users would use "community points," which they would earn by posting on a specific subreddit. The user then makes points based on how many users upvote 
or downvote a particular post. (It's simply a blockchain version of Reddit Karma.)
Those points can essentially be used as voting shares, allowing users who have made significant contributions to have a greater say in choices that affect the community.
Because those points are stored on the blockchain, their owners have more control over them; they can't be simply taken away, and they track you. To be fair, this is
just one use, a corporate version of a Web 3.0 idea known as Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), which use tokens to distribute ownership and decision-making
authority more evenly.
The move from Web 2.0 to 3.0 is happening slowly and unnoticed by the general public. Web 3.0 applications have the same look and feel as 2.0 applications, but the
back-end is fundamentally different.
Web 3.0's future leads to universal applications that can be read and utilized by a wide range of devices and software kinds, making our commercial and leisure activities
more convenient.
Data decentralization and the establishment of a transparent and secure environment will be enabled by the rise of technologies such as distributed ledgers and blockchain
storage, which will defy Web 2.0's centralization, surveillance and exploitative advertising.
In a decentralized web, individuals will be able to rightfully control their data when decentralized infrastructure and application platforms supplant centralized tech 
companies.
Let's look at the four properties of Web 3.0 to better comprehend its complexities and subtleties.
Semantic web
The "semantic web" is a crucial component of Web 3.0. The phrase was coined by Tim Berners-Lee to describe a web of data that machines can analyze. So, in plain English,
what does that mean? What exactly does the term "semantics" imply? What is the distinction between "I adore Bitcoin" and "I <3 Bitcoin"?
Although the syntax of the two phrases differs, the semantics of the two are similar. Semantics is concerned with the meaning or emotion expressed by facts, and both of
those sentences represent the same emotions in the aforementioned example. Web 3.0's two cornerstones are the semantic web and artificial intelligence. The semantic web
will aid in teaching the computer what the data means, allowing AI to develop real-world use cases that can make better use of the data. 
The primary concept is to build a knowledge spiderweb throughout the internet that will aid in understanding the meaning of words and generating, sharing and connecting
content through search and analysis. Web 3.0 will facilitate more data communication thanks to semantic metadata. As a result, the user experience progresses to a new
level of connectivity that takes advantage of all accessible data.
